+++
title = "Comparison of So ware Design Models: An Extended Systematic Mapping Study"
date = 2019-07-05T17:50:34-02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Lucian José Gonçales", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Toacy Cavalcante de Oliveira", "Murilo Scholl"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["3"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 52, No. 3, pp. 48:1-48:41"
publication_short = "ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 52, No. 3, pp. 48:1-48:41"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Model comparison has been widely used to support many tasks in model-driven software development. For this reason, many techniques of comparing them have been proposed in the last few decades. However, academia and industry have overlooked a classi cation of currently available approaches to the comparison of design models. Hence, a thorough understanding of state-of-the-art techniques remains limited and incon- clusive. This article, therefore, focuses on providing a classi cation and a thematic analysis of studies on the comparison of software design models. We carried out a systematic mapping study following well-established guidelines to answer nine research questions. In total, 56 primary studies (out of 4,132) were selected from 10 widely recognized electronic databases after a careful  ltering process. The main results are that a majority of the primary studies (1) provide coarse-grained techniques of the comparison of general-purpose diagrams, (2) adopt graphs as principal data structure and compare software design models considering structural prop- erties only, (3) pinpoint commonalities and di erences between software design models rather than assess their similarity, and (4) propose new techniques while neglecting the production of empirical knowledge from experimental studies. Finally, this article highlights some challenges and directions that can be explored in upcoming studies."
abstract_short = "Model comparison has been widely used to support many tasks in model-driven software development. For this reason, many techniques of comparing them have been proposed in the last few decades. However, academia and industry have overlooked a classi cation of currently available approaches to the comparison of design models. Hence, a thorough understanding of state-of-the-art techniques remains limited and incon- clusive. This article, therefore, focuses on providing a classi cation and a thematic analysis of studies on the comparison of software design models. We carried out a systematic mapping study following well-established guidelines to answer nine research questions. In total, 56 primary studies (out of 4,132) were selected from 10 widely recognized electronic databases after a careful  ltering process. The main results are that a majority of the primary studies (1) provide coarse-grained techniques of the comparison of general-purpose diagrams, (2) adopt graphs as principal data structure and compare software design models considering structural prop- erties only, (3) pinpoint commonalities and di erences between software design models rather than assess their similarity, and (4) propose new techniques while neglecting the production of empirical knowledge from experimental studies. Finally, this article highlights some challenges and directions that can be explored in upcoming studies."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["UML", "Model Comparison", "Model Similarity", "Software Design Models"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/acs-2019.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
