+++
title = "Assessing the Impact of Aspects on Model Composition Effort"
date = 2010-03-01T22:09:53-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Kleinner Farias**", "Alessandro Garcia", "Jon Whittle"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "9th International Conference on Aspect-Oriented Software Development (AOSD'10), pp. 73-84, Rennes and Saint-Malo, France, March"
publication_short = "9th International Conference on Aspect-Oriented Software Development (AOSD'10), pp. 73-84, Rennes and Saint-Malo, France, March"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Model composition is a common operation used in many software development activities—for example, reconciling models developed in parallel by different development teams, or merging models of new features with existing model artifacts. Unfortunately, both commercial and academic model composition tools suffer from the composition conflict problem. That is, models to-be-composed may conflict with each other and these conflicts must be resolved. In practice, detecting and resolving conflicts is a highly-intensive manual activity. In this paper, we investigate whether aspect-orientation reduces conflict resolution effort as improved modularization may better localize conflicts. The main goal of the paper is to conduct an exploratory study to analyze the impact of aspects on conflict resolution. In particular, model compositions are used to express the evolution of architectural models along six releases of a software product line. Well-known composition algorithms, such as override, merge and union, are applied and compared on both AO and non-AO models in terms of their conflict rate and effort to solve the identified conflicts. Our findings identify specific scenarios where aspect-orientation properties, such as obliviousness and quantification, result in a lower (or higher) composition effort."
abstract_short = "Model composition is a common operation used in many software development activities—for example, reconciling models developed in parallel by different development teams, or merging models of new features with existing model artifacts. Unfortunately, both commercial and academic model composition tools suffer from the composition conflict problem. That is, models to-be-composed may conflict with each other and these conflicts must be resolved. In practice, detecting and resolving conflicts is a highly-intensive manual activity. In this paper, we investigate whether aspect-orientation reduces conflict resolution effort as improved modularization may better localize conflicts. The main goal of the paper is to conduct an exploratory study to analyze the impact of aspects on conflict resolution. In particular, model compositions are used to express the evolution of architectural models along six releases of a software product line. Well-known composition algorithms, such as override, merge and union, are applied and compared on both AO and non-AO models in terms of their conflict rate and effort to solve the identified conflicts. Our findings identify specific scenarios where aspect-orientation properties, such as obliviousness and quantification, result in a lower (or higher) composition effort."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Aspect-Oriented Modeling", "Empirical Study"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/aosd-2010.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
