+++
title = "CMFRAME: a Framework for Managing Dynamic and Hierarchical Context Histories"
date = 2019-09-05T17:29:50-02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Felipe Lauermann Vielitz", "Márcio Garcia Martins", "Jorge Luis Victória Barbosa", "**Kleinner Farias de Oliveira**", "Lucas Pfeiffer Salomão Dias", "Alexandre Wolf"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "XLV Conferência Latino-Americana de Informática, pp. 1-8, Setembro-Outubro"
publication_short = "XLV Conferência Latino-Americana de Informática, pp. 1-8, Setembro-Outubro"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "With the growing availability of devices capable of capturing information about their surroundings and the expansion of mobile connectivity, Internet of Things (IoT) solutions are increasingly been integrated into society. For IoT solutions to emerge successfully on the market, they will employ more than traditional mobile computing, but they will also require the use of everyday objects in an interconnected way. This interconnected world will support the intelligence in environments. In order to provide this infrastructure for environments, it will be necessary to propose platforms for software development based on context awareness and context processing. In this sense, this article proposes CMFrame, a framework for managing contextual information captured from physical environments using hierarchical and dynamic entities. CMFrame allows that entities to modify their hierarchical organization to manage environments and their related contexts. Contexts linked to each entity are also dynamic and can store different amounts of values at any time. The article presents the proposed framework and its evaluation through two applications focused on intelligent enviroments. The fisrt is dedicated to monitor the movements of entities in an environment, and the second addresses energy monitoring. The scientific contribution of CMFrame is the proposal to abstract the management of dynamic and hierarchical context histories through a framework."
abstract_short = "With the growing availability of devices capable of capturing information about their surroundings and the expansion of mobile connectivity, Internet of Things (IoT) solutions are increasingly been integrated into society. For IoT solutions to emerge successfully on the market, they will employ more than traditional mobile computing, but they will also require the use of everyday objects in an interconnected way. This interconnected world will support the intelligence in environments. In order to provide this infrastructure for environments, it will be necessary to propose platforms for software development based on context awareness and context processing. In this sense, this article proposes CMFrame, a framework for managing contextual information captured from physical environments using hierarchical and dynamic entities. CMFrame allows that entities to modify their hierarchical organization to manage environments and their related contexts. Contexts linked to each entity are also dynamic and can store different amounts of values at any time. The article presents the proposed framework and its evaluation through two applications focused on intelligent enviroments. The fisrt is dedicated to monitor the movements of entities in an environment, and the second addresses energy monitoring. The scientific contribution of CMFrame is the proposal to abstract the management of dynamic and hierarchical context histories through a framework."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/clei-2019.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
