+++
title = "Empirical Evaluation of Effort on Composing Design Models"
date = 2010-05-01T21:46:25-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Kleinner Farias**"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "32nd ACM/IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering, Doctoral Symposium, Vol. 2, pp. 405-408, Cape Town, South Africa"
publication_short = "32nd ACM/IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering, Doctoral Symposium, Vol. 2, pp. 405-408, Cape Town, South Africa"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The importance of model composition in model-centric software development is recognized by researchers and practitioners. However, the lack of empirical evidence about the impact of model composition techniques on developers’ effort is a key impairment for their adoption in real-world design settings. Software engineers are left without any guidance on how to properly use certain model techniques in a way that effectively reduces their development effort. This work aims to address this problem by: (1) providing empirical evidence on model composition effort through a family of experimental studies; (2) defining quantitative indicators to objectively assess key attributes of model composition effort; (3) deriving a method to support the systematic application of composition techniques; and (4) conceiving a new model composition technique to overcome the problems identified throughout the experimental evaluations."
abstract_short = "The importance of model composition in model-centric software development is recognized by researchers and practitioners. However, the lack of empirical evidence about the impact of model composition techniques on developers’ effort is a key impairment for their adoption in real-world design settings. Software engineers are left without any guidance on how to properly use certain model techniques in a way that effectively reduces their development effort. This work aims to address this problem by: (1) providing empirical evidence on model composition effort through a family of experimental studies; (2) defining quantitative indicators to objectively assess key attributes of model composition effort; (3) deriving a method to support the systematic application of composition techniques; and (4) conceiving a new model composition technique to overcome the problems identified throughout the experimental evaluations."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Model Composition", "Empirical Study", "Development Effort", "Empirical Software Engineering"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/icse-2010.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
