+++
title = "UML2Merge: a UML extension for model merging"
date = 2019-12-05T17:07:19-02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Kleinner Farias**", "Toacy Cavalcante de Oliveira", "Lucian José Gonçales", "Vinicius Bischoff"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "IET Software, Vol. 13, Iss. 6, pp. 575-586"
publication_short = "IET Software, Vol. 13, Iss. 6, pp. 575-586"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Model merging plays a chief role in many software engineering activities, e.g. evolving Unified Modelling Language (UML) models for adding new features. Software developers may evolve UML models using merge relationships. However, given the growing heterogeneity of merge strategies and the UML limitations for expressing merge relationship, it is particularly challenging for them to specify merge relationships. Consequently, developers, end up expressing improperly merge relationships. Today, the UML can neither specify the semantics nor the order in which merge relationships must be performed. Developers are unable to specify the semantics and order in which merge relationships must be performed. This study, therefore, proposes UML2Merge, which is a UML extension for expressing merge relationship. The UML2Merge was evaluated through an empirical study with 10 participants for investigating its effects on the merge effort, the correctness of merge relationships, and the participant's acceptance. The collected data suggest that the UML2Merge is proper to express merge relationships by requiring a low merge effort, producing elevated correctness of merge relationships, and having a high acceptance of the participants. The results are encouraging and show the potential for using UML2Merge to express the evolution of UML models through merge relationships."
abstract_short = "Model merging plays a chief role in many software engineering activities, e.g. evolving Unified Modelling Language (UML) models for adding new features. Software developers may evolve UML models using merge relationships. However, given the growing heterogeneity of merge strategies and the UML limitations for expressing merge relationship, it is particularly challenging for them to specify merge relationships. Consequently, developers, end up expressing improperly merge relationships. Today, the UML can neither specify the semantics nor the order in which merge relationships must be performed. Developers are unable to specify the semantics and order in which merge relationships must be performed. This study, therefore, proposes UML2Merge, which is a UML extension for expressing merge relationship. The UML2Merge was evaluated through an empirical study with 10 participants for investigating its effects on the merge effort, the correctness of merge relationships, and the participant's acceptance. The collected data suggest that the UML2Merge is proper to express merge relationships by requiring a low merge effort, producing elevated correctness of merge relationships, and having a high acceptance of the participants. The results are encouraging and show the potential for using UML2Merge to express the evolution of UML models through merge relationships."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Model merging", "UML metamodel", "Empirical Study"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/iet-2019.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
