+++
title = "Effects of Contextual Information on Maintenance Effort: A Controlled Experiment"
date = 2020-01-05T16:54:24-02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Leandro Ferreira D’Avila", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Jorge Luis Victria Barbosa"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Journal of Systems and Software, Vol. 159, pp. 1-19"
publication_short = "Journal of Systems and Software, Vol. 159, pp. 1-19"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "There has been an increased focus on context-aware tools in software engineering. Within this area, an important challenge is to define and model the context for software-development projects and software development in general. This article reports a controlled experiment that compares the effort to imple- ment changes, the correctness and the maintainability of an existing application between two projects; one that uses qualitative dashboards depicting contextual information, and one that does not. The results of this controlled experiment suggest that the usage of qualitative dashboards improves the correctness during the software maintenance activities and reduces the effort to implement these activities."
abstract_short = "There has been an increased focus on context-aware tools in software engineering. Within this area, an important challenge is to define and model the context for software-development projects and software development in general. This article reports a controlled experiment that compares the effort to imple- ment changes, the correctness and the maintainability of an existing application between two projects; one that uses qualitative dashboards depicting contextual information, and one that does not. The results of this controlled experiment suggest that the usage of qualitative dashboards improves the correctness during the software maintenance activities and reduces the effort to implement these activities."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Maintenance effort", "Empirical study", "Contextual information", "Qualitative dashboard"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/jss-2020.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
