+++
title = "MAS-ML 2.0: Supporting the Modelling of Multi-agent Systems with Different Agent Architectures"
date = 2015-06-12T03:06:12-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Enyo Gonçalves", "Mariela Cortés", "Gustavo Campos", "Yrleyjander Lopes", "Emmanuel Freire", "Viviane Silva", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Marcos Oliveira"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Journal of Systems and Software, Vol. 108, pp. 77–109"
publication_short = "Journal of Systems and Software, Vol. 108, pp. 77–109"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Multi-agent systems (MAS) involve a wide variety of agents that interact with each other to achieve their goals. Usually each agent has a particular internal architecture defining its main structure that gives support to the interaction among the entities of MAS. Many modelling languages have been proposed in recent years to represent the internal architectures of such agents, for instance the UML profiles. In particular, we highlight MAS-ML, an MAS modelling language that performs a conservative extension of UML while incorporating agent-related concepts to represent proactive agents. However, such languages fail to support the modelling of the heterogeneous architectures that can be used to develop the agents of an MAS. Even worse, little has been done to provide tools to help the systematic design of agents. This paper, therefore, aims to extend the MAS-ML metamodel and evolve its tool to support the modelling of not only proactive agents but also several other architectures described in the literature."
abstract_short = "Multi-agent systems (MAS) involve a wide variety of agents that interact with each other to achieve their goals. Usually each agent has a particular internal architecture defining its main structure that gives support to the interaction among the entities of MAS. Many modelling languages have been proposed in recent years to represent the internal architectures of such agents, for instance the UML profiles. In particular, we highlight MAS-ML, an MAS modelling language that performs a conservative extension of UML while incorporating agent-related concepts to represent proactive agents. However, such languages fail to support the modelling of the heterogeneous architectures that can be used to develop the agents of an MAS. Even worse, little has been done to provide tools to help the systematic design of agents. This paper, therefore, aims to extend the MAS-ML metamodel and evolve its tool to support the modelling of not only proactive agents but also several other architectures described in the literature."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Multi-agent System", "Modelling language"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/jss-2015.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
