+++
title = "Toward an Architecture for Comparing UML Design Models"
date = 2017-07-01T01:54:38-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Lucian Gonçales", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Vinícius Bischoff", "Matheus Segalotto"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Journal of Software, Vol. 12, No. 7, pages 559-569, July"
publication_short = "Journal of Software, Vol. 12, No. 7, pp. 559-569, July"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Academia and industry are increasingly concerned with producing general-purpose model comparison techniques to support many software engineering activities, e.g., clone detection or model composition. However, the current methods fail to provide flexible and reusable architectures, a comprehensive understanding of the critical composition activities, and guidelines about how developers can use and extend them. These limitations are one of the reasons why state-of-the-art techniques are often unable to aid the development of new comparison tools. To overcome these shortcomings, this paper, therefore, proposes a flexible, component-based architecture for aiding the development of comparison techniques. Moreover, an intelligible comparison workflow is proposed to support developers to improve the understanding of significant comparison activities and their relationships."
abstract_short = "Academia and industry are increasingly concerned with producing general-purpose model comparison techniques to support many software engineering activities, e.g., clone detection or model composition. However, the current methods fail to provide flexible and reusable architectures, a comprehensive understanding of the critical composition activities, and guidelines about how developers can use and extend them. These limitations are one of the reasons why state-of-the-art techniques are often unable to aid the development of new comparison tools. To overcome these shortcomings, this paper, therefore, proposes a flexible, component-based architecture for aiding the development of comparison techniques. Moreover, an intelligible comparison workflow is proposed to support developers to improve the understanding of significant comparison activities and their relationships."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Model Comparison", "UML", "Software Architecture"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/jsw-2017.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
