+++
title = "A Flexible Strategy-Based Model Comparison Approach: Bridging the Syntactic and Semantic Gap"
date =2009-06-01T20:47:28-03:00
draft = false


# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Kleinner Farias**", "Karin Breitman", "Toacy Oliveira"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Journal of Universal Computer Science, Vol. 15, No. 11, pp. 2225-2253"
publication_short = "Journal of Universal Computer Science, Vol. 15, No. 11, pp. 2225-2253"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "In this paper we discuss the importance of model comparison as one of the pillars of model-driven development (MDD). We propose an innovative, flexible, model comparison approach, based on the composition of matching strategies. The proposed approach is fully implemented by a match operator that combines syntactical matching rule, synonym dictionary and typographic similarity strategies to a semantic, ontology-based strategy. Ontologies are semantically richer, have greater power of expression than UML models and can be formally verified for consistency, thus providing more reliability and accuracy to model comparison. The proposed approach is presented in the format of a workflow that provides clear guidance to users and facilitates the inclusion of new matching strategies and evolution."
abstract_short = "In this paper we discuss the importance of model comparison as one of the pillars of model-driven development (MDD). We propose an innovative, flexible, model comparison approach, based on the composition of matching strategies. The proposed approach is fully implemented by a match operator that combines syntactical matching rule, synonym dictionary and typographic similarity strategies to a semantic, ontology-based strategy. Ontologies are semantically richer, have greater power of expression than UML models and can be formally verified for consistency, thus providing more reliability and accuracy to model comparison. The proposed approach is presented in the format of a workflow that provides clear guidance to users and facilitates the inclusion of new matching strategies and evolution."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Model Comparison", "UML", "Ontology Alignment", "Model-Driven Development"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/jucs-2009.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
