+++
title = "Derivação de Casos de Testes Funcionais: um Abordagem Baseada em Modelos UML"
date = 2009-01-01T20:47:34-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Alex Orozco", "**Kleinner Oliveira**", "Flávio Oliveira", "Avelino Zorzo,"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "RESI: Revista Eletrônica de Sistemas de Informação, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 1-15"
publication_short = "RESI: Revista Eletrônica de Sistemas de Informação, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 1-15"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "In this paper we present a model-based testing approach that aims at identifying, automating and deriving functional test cases in whole or in part from UML models that describe some aspects of the system under test. Our approach provides a considerable reduction of the effort on the test generation, increasing the effectiveness of the tests, shortening the testing cycle, and avoiding tedious and error-prone editing of a suite of hand-crafted tests. Finally, we present a case study to demonstrate the practicality and usefulness of the proposed approach."
abstract_short = "In this paper we present a model-based testing approach that aims at identifying, automating and deriving functional test cases in whole or in part from UML models that describe some aspects of the system under test. Our approach provides a considerable reduction of the effort on the test generation, increasing the effectiveness of the tests, shortening the testing cycle, and avoiding tedious and error-prone editing of a suite of hand-crafted tests. Finally, we present a case study to demonstrate the practicality and usefulness of the proposed approach."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/resi-2009.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
