+++
title = "Extending JUnit 4 with Java Annotations and Reflection to Test Variant Model Transformation Assets"
date = 2014-03-03T03:07:26-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Fábio Paulo Basso", "Toacy Cavalcante Oliveira", "**Kleinner Farias**"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "29th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, pp. 1601-1608, Gyeongju, Korea, March"
publication_short = "29th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, pp. 1601-1608, Gyeongju, Korea, March"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Software Product Line (SPL) techniques are widely used to represent variability and commonality in reusable software assets. Similarly, model transformations are also software assets and can be reused with the same techniques. However, their applicability in the model transformations domain demands an extra effort to test the generated/adapted assets. Automated test cases should consider isolated transformations and also their combined use in a model transformation chain, that can vary according to different needs in software projects, e.g. libraries and frameworks. In order to facilitate the specification of automated test cases, this paper presents a JUnit extension to support unit and integration tests that execute dynamic SPL-based model transformation chains."
abstract_short = "Software Product Line (SPL) techniques are widely used to represent variability and commonality in reusable software assets. Similarly, model transformations are also software assets and can be reused with the same techniques. However, their applicability in the model transformations domain demands an extra effort to test the generated/adapted assets. Automated test cases should consider isolated transformations and also their combined use in a model transformation chain, that can vary according to different needs in software projects, e.g. libraries and frameworks. In order to facilitate the specification of automated test cases, this paper presents a JUnit extension to support unit and integration tests that execute dynamic SPL-based model transformation chains."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Model Transformation", "Software Product Lines", "Java Reflection", "Unit Tests", "Integration Tests"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/sac-2014-3.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
