+++
title = "Faster Seam Carving with Minimum Energy Windows"
date = 2014-03-01T03:07:23-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["César Silveira", "Fabio Mierlo", "Luiz Gonzaga Jr", "Cristiano Costa", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Rodrigo Righi"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "29th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, pp. 45-48, Gyeongju, Korea, March"
publication_short = "29th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, pp. 45-48, Gyeongju, Korea, March"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Content-aware image retargeting is the problem of adapting images to different display sizes and aspect ratios while minimizing distortions to the most important regions of those images. Seam carving is an operator for content-aware image retargeting that iteratively removes 8-connected pixel paths (seams) from an image until a target resolution is reached. Finding optimal seams for seam carving is computationally expensive. We have proposed the concept of minimum energy windows as an approach to reduce the computational load of seam finding. Our results demonstrate that it is possible to find nearly-optimal seams and obtain high quality results with a significant performance improvement."
abstract_short = "Content-aware image retargeting is the problem of adapting images to different display sizes and aspect ratios while minimizing distortions to the most important regions of those images. Seam carving is an operator for content-aware image retargeting that iteratively removes 8-connected pixel paths (seams) from an image until a target resolution is reached. Finding optimal seams for seam carving is computationally expensive. We have proposed the concept of minimum energy windows as an approach to reduce the computational load of seam finding. Our results demonstrate that it is possible to find nearly-optimal seams and obtain high quality results with a significant performance improvement."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Image resizing", " Content-aware image retargeting", "Minimum energy windows", "Seam carving", "Image seams", "Dynamic programming"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/sac-2014-4.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
