+++
title = "Rescheduling and Checkpointing as Strategies to Run Synchronous Parallel Programs on P2P Desktop Grids"
date = 2015-04-01T03:07:14-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Rodrigo Righi", "Alexandre Veith", "Vinicius Rodrigues", "Gustavo Rostirolla", "Cristiano Costa", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Antonio Alberti"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "30th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, pages 501-504, Salamanca, Spain, April"
publication_short = "30th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, pages 501-504, Salamanca, Spain, April"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Today, BSP (Bulk-Synchronous Parallel) represents one of the most often used models for writing tightly-coupled parallel programs. As resource substrates, commonly clusters and eventually computational grids are used to run BSP applications. In this context, here we investigate the use of collaborative computing and idle resources to execute this kind of demand, so we are proposing a model named BSPonP2P to answer the following question: How can we develop an efficient and viable model to run BSP applications on P2P Desktop Grids? We answer it by providing both process rescheduling and checkpointing to deal with dynamism at application and infrastructure levels and resource heterogeneity. The results concern a prototype that ran over a subset of the Grid5000, showing encouraging results on using collaboration and volatile resources for HPC."
abstract_short = "Today, BSP (Bulk-Synchronous Parallel) represents one of the most often used models for writing tightly-coupled parallel programs. As resource substrates, commonly clusters and eventually computational grids are used to run BSP applications. In this context, here we investigate the use of collaborative computing and idle resources to execute this kind of demand, so we are proposing a model named BSPonP2P to answer the following question: How can we develop an efficient and viable model to run BSP applications on P2P Desktop Grids? We answer it by providing both process rescheduling and checkpointing to deal with dynamism at application and infrastructure levels and resource heterogeneity. The results concern a prototype that ran over a subset of the Grid5000, showing encouraging results on using collaboration and volatile resources for HPC."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Performance", "Management", "Distributed Systems"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/sac-2015.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
