+++
title = "On the Impact of Obliviousness and Quantification on Model Composition Effort"
date = 2014-03-02T03:07:26-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Everton Guimarães", "Alessandro Garcia", "**Kleinner Farias**"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "29th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, pp. 1043-1048, Gyeongju, Korea, March"
publication_short = "29th Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, pp. 1043-1048, Gyeongju, Korea, March"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Researchers and practitioners advocate that design properties, such as obliviousness and quantification, can improve the modularity of software systems, thereby reducing the effort of composing design models. However, there is no empirical knowledge about how these design properties impact model composition effort. This paper, therefore, performs an empirical study to understand this impact. The main contributions are: (i) quantitative indicators to evaluate to what extent such design properties impact model composition effort; (ii) an objective evaluation of the impact of such modularity properties in 26 versions of two software projects by using statistical tests; and (iii) lessons learned on whether (and how) modularity anomalies related to misuse of quantification and obliviousness in the input models can significantly increase model composition effort."
abstract_short = "Researchers and practitioners advocate that design properties, such as obliviousness and quantification, can improve the modularity of software systems, thereby reducing the effort of composing design models. However, there is no empirical knowledge about how these design properties impact model composition effort. This paper, therefore, performs an empirical study to understand this impact. The main contributions are: (i) quantitative indicators to evaluate to what extent such design properties impact model composition effort; (ii) an objective evaluation of the impact of such modularity properties in 26 versions of two software projects by using statistical tests; and (iii) lessons learned on whether (and how) modularity anomalies related to misuse of quantification and obliviousness in the input models can significantly increase model composition effort."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Aspect-Oriented Modeling", "Model Composition", "Modularity", "Measurement"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/sac-2014-2.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
