+++
title = "A Model for Predicting Disapproval of Apprentices in Distance Education Using Decision Tree"
date = 2019-05-05T19:46:46-02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["João Luiz Cavalcante Ferreira", "André Filipe Aloise", "Vítor Kehl Matter", "Jorge Luis Victória Barbosa", "Sandro José Rigo", "**Kleinner S. Farias de Oliveira**"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "XV Brazilian Symposium on Information Systems (SBSI’19), No. 14, pp. 1-8, May 20–24, Aracaju, Brazil"
publication_short = "XV Brazilian Symposium on Information Systems (SBSI’19), No. 14, pp. 1-8, May 20–24, Aracaju, Brazil"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This paper proposes the MD-PREAD, a model that uses the decision tree technique for predicting apprentices with risk of failure. The capability of choosing the decision tree as a way to generate a greater set for educators is the highlight of this project. After the data was collected and processed, it was possible to generate a list of students that had the greatest chance to fail, this data would give the opportunity to help the students to recover their grades before the end of the course. Finally, to evaluate the model, the indexes of the classi ers were compared and the J48 algorithm stood out with an accuracy predominance of 84.5%, precision of 85.52%. It was concluded that the MD-PREAD model can assist in the prognosis of groups at risk of failure."
abstract_short = "This paper proposes the MD-PREAD, a model that uses the decision tree technique for predicting apprentices with risk of failure. The capability of choosing the decision tree as a way to generate a greater set for educators is the highlight of this project. After the data was collected and processed, it was possible to generate a list of students that had the greatest chance to fail, this data would give the opportunity to help the students to recover their grades before the end of the course. Finally, to evaluate the model, the indexes of the classi ers were compared and the J48 algorithm stood out with an accuracy predominance of 84.5%, precision of 85.52%. It was concluded that the MD-PREAD model can assist in the prognosis of groups at risk of failure."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Prediction", "Decision Tree", "Educational Data Mining"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/sbsi-2019-6.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
