+++
title = "UMLCollab: A Hybrid Approach for Collaborative Modeling of UML Models"
date = 2019-05-05T19:58:29-02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["McLyndon S. de L. Xavier", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Jorge Barbosa", "Lucian Gonçales", "Vinicius Bischoff"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "XV Brazilian Symposium on Information Systems (SBSI’19), No. 30, pp. 1-8, May 20–24, 2019, Aracaju, Brazil"
publication_short = "XV Brazilian Symposium on Information Systems (SBSI’19), No. 30, pp. 1-8, May 20–24, 2019, Aracaju, Brazil"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "In collaborative software modeling the two main types of collaboration still present problems, such as the constant interruptions that hinder the cognitive process in synchronous collaboration, and the complicated and costly stages of con ict resolution in asynchronous collaboration. For this, this paper proposes a technique called “UMLCollab”. This technique combines aspects from synchronous and asynchronous collaboration. Through experiments, developers applied the proposed solution and they achieved to an intermediate productivity in relation to traditional collaboration methods. The results showed that the “UMLCollab” improved the correctness of the changed models, the notion of developer regarding to the resolution of con icts, and enabled the parallel changes occurring while other collaborators are working on without degrade the software diagrams being modelled locally."
abstract_short = "In collaborative software modeling the two main types of collaboration still present problems, such as the constant interruptions that hinder the cognitive process in synchronous collaboration, and the complicated and costly stages of con ict resolution in asynchronous collaboration. For this, this paper proposes a technique called “UMLCollab”. This technique combines aspects from synchronous and asynchronous collaboration. Through experiments, developers applied the proposed solution and they achieved to an intermediate productivity in relation to traditional collaboration methods. The results showed that the “UMLCollab” improved the correctness of the changed models, the notion of developer regarding to the resolution of con icts, and enabled the parallel changes occurring while other collaborators are working on without degrade the software diagrams being modelled locally."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Collaborative Models", "Collaborative Software Modeling", "Collaborative Software Engineering"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/sbsi-2019-5.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
