+++
title = "Towards a Hybrid Approach to Measure Similarity Between UML Models"
date = 2019-05-05T20:32:39-02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Lucian José Gonçales", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Vinicius Bischoff"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "XV Brazilian Symposium on Information Systems (SBSI’19), No. 17, pp. 1-8, May 20–24, 2019, Aracaju, Brazil"
publication_short = "XV Brazilian Symposium on Information Systems (SBSI’19), No. 17, pp. 1-8, May 20–24, 2019, Aracaju, Brazil"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Several approaches to measure similarity between UML models have been proposed in recent years. However, they usually fall short of what was expected in terms of precision and sensitivity. Consequently, software developers end up using imprecise, similarity-measuring approaches to figure out how similar design models of fast-changing information systems are. This article proposes UMLSim, which is a hybrid approach to measure similarity between UML models. It brings an innovative approach by using multiple criteria to quantify how UML models are similar, including semantic, syntactic, structural, and design criteria. A case study was conducted to compare the UMLSim with five state-of-the-art approaches through six evaluation scenarios, in which the similarity between realistic UML models was computed. Our results, supported by empirical evidence, show that, on average, the UML-Sim presented high values for precision (0.93), recall (0.63) and f-measure (0.67) metrics, excelling the state-of-the-art approaches. The empirical knowledge and insights that are produced may serve as a starting point for future works. The results are encouraging and show the potential for using UMLSim in real-world settings."
abstract_short = "Several approaches to measure similarity between UML models have been proposed in recent years. However, they usually fall short of what was expected in terms of precision and sensitivity. Consequently, software developers end up using imprecise, similarity-measuring approaches to figure out how similar design models of fast-changing information systems are. This article proposes UMLSim, which is a hybrid approach to measure similarity between UML models. It brings an innovative approach by using multiple criteria to quantify how UML models are similar, including semantic, syntactic, structural, and design criteria. A case study was conducted to compare the UMLSim with five state-of-the-art approaches through six evaluation scenarios, in which the similarity between realistic UML models was computed. Our results, supported by empirical evidence, show that, on average, the UML-Sim presented high values for precision (0.93), recall (0.63) and f-measure (0.67) metrics, excelling the state-of-the-art approaches. The empirical knowledge and insights that are produced may serve as a starting point for future works. The results are encouraging and show the potential for using UMLSim in real-world settings."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Model Similarity", "Case Study", "Model Comparison Technique", "Unified Modelling Language", "Information Systems"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/sbsi-2019-1.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
