+++
title = "Hermes: A Natural Language Interface Model for So ware Transformation"
date = 2019-05-05T20:14:50-02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Michael William Chagas", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Lucian Gonçales", "Lucas Kupssinskü", "João Carlos Gluz"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "XV Brazilian Symposium on Information Systems (SBSI’19), No. 43, pp. 1-8, May 20–24, 2019, Aracaju, Brazil"
publication_short = "XV Brazilian Symposium on Information Systems (SBSI’19), No. 43, pp. 1-8, May 20–24, 2019, Aracaju, Brazil"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Software maintenance is a costly task and error-prone for both software developers and users as well. By knowing how and what software requirements need to be changed, end users could perform maintenance assisted by tools. However, current literature lacks for tools that support automated maintenance in real-world scenarios and allow users interaction via natural language. Even worse, the current tools are unable to understand the semantic of requests, as well as perform the necessary transformations in the maintenance software. This paper, therefore, proposes Hermes, a natural language interface model for software transformation. It combines computational linguistics techniques and logic programming to perform automated maintenance requests in software. Hermes interacts with end user through state of the art language parsers and domain ontologies by interpreting the semantics of changes requests to build a typed graph that change the software. Hermes was evaluated through an empirical study with 8 participants to investigate its performance, the level of acceptance, and usability. The collected data show that Hermes was accurate, producing a high elevated correctness number of hits by  nding correct transformations and has been highly accepted by the users. The results are encouraging and show the potential for using Hermes to properly produce software maintenance requests."
abstract_short = "Software maintenance is a costly task and error-prone for both software developers and users as well. By knowing how and what software requirements need to be changed, end users could perform maintenance assisted by tools. However, current literature lacks for tools that support automated maintenance in real-world scenarios and allow users interaction via natural language. Even worse, the current tools are unable to understand the semantic of requests, as well as perform the necessary transformations in the maintenance software. This paper, therefore, proposes Hermes, a natural language interface model for software transformation. It combines computational linguistics techniques and logic programming to perform automated maintenance requests in software. Hermes interacts with end user through state of the art language parsers and domain ontologies by interpreting the semantics of changes requests to build a typed graph that change the software. Hermes was evaluated through an empirical study with 8 participants to investigate its performance, the level of acceptance, and usability. The collected data show that Hermes was accurate, producing a high elevated correctness number of hits by  nding correct transformations and has been highly accepted by the users. The results are encouraging and show the potential for using Hermes to properly produce software maintenance requests."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Natural Language Processing", "Parsing", "Ontologies"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/sbsi-2019-4.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
