+++
title = "On the Effects of Developers’ Intuition on Measuring Similarity Between UML Models"
date = 2019-05-05T20:29:20-02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Lucian José Gonçales", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Vinicius Bischo "]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "XV Brazilian Symposium on Information Systems (SBSI’19), No. 29, pp. 1-8, May 20–24, 2019, Aracaju, Brazil"
publication_short = "XV Brazilian Symposium on Information Systems (SBSI’19), No. 29, pp. 1-8, May 20–24, 2019, Aracaju, Brazil"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Software design models play a key role in many activities of information systems engineering, such as documenting software artefacts, communicating project decisions, and code generation. In this scenario, the techniques for comparison of software design models are used for several purposes, such as, for detecting clones, and model evolution. In the last decades, academia proposed different techniques for comparing software models. Even using these different techniques for model comparison, this process is still an activity of a subjective nature, because during this process, different developers can interpret the similarity differently. Thus, the problem is that it is still unknown if developers has the same intuition in order to resolve comparison of software design models. For this, the main objective of this work is to explore the effects of their experience level, i.e., experienced and inexperienced developers, relative to their effort and correctness for resolving activities of comparing software design models. Therefore, a controlled experiment was conducted to evaluate the developer's experience level regarding on similarities of UML Models. The results show that the developer's experience does not affect the understanding of similarities activities."
abstract_short = "Software design models play a key role in many activities of information systems engineering, such as documenting software artefacts, communicating project decisions, and code generation. In this scenario, the techniques for comparison of software design models are used for several purposes, such as, for detecting clones, and model evolution. In the last decades, academia proposed different techniques for comparing software models. Even using these different techniques for model comparison, this process is still an activity of a subjective nature, because during this process, different developers can interpret the similarity differently. Thus, the problem is that it is still unknown if developers has the same intuition in order to resolve comparison of software design models. For this, the main objective of this work is to explore the effects of their experience level, i.e., experienced and inexperienced developers, relative to their effort and correctness for resolving activities of comparing software design models. Therefore, a controlled experiment was conducted to evaluate the developer's experience level regarding on similarities of UML Models. The results show that the developer's experience does not affect the understanding of similarities activities."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Unifed Modelling Language", "UML", "Software Engineering", "Controlled Experiment", "Information Systems"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/sbsi-2019-2.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
