+++
title = "Toward an Architecture for Model Composition Techniques"
date = 2015-07-02T03:06:48-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Kleinner Farias**", "Lucian José Gonçales", "Murillo Scholl", "Maurício Veronez", "Toacy Oliveira"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Twenty-Seventh International Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering, pp. 656-659, July, Pittsburgh, USA"
publication_short = "Twenty-Seventh International Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering, pp. 656-659, July, Pittsburgh, USA"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Academia and industry are increasingly concerned with producing general-purpose model composition techniques to support many software engineering activities, e.g., evolving UML design models or reconciling conflicting models. However, the current techniques fail to provide flexible and reusable architectures, a comprehensive understanding of the critical composition activities, and guidelines about how developers can use and extend them. These limitations are one of the main reasons why state-of-the-art techniques are often unable to aid the development of new composition tools. To overcome these shortcomings, this paper, therefore, proposes a flexible, component-based architecture for aiding the development of composition techniques. Moreover, an intelligible composition workflow is proposed to help developers to improve the understanding of crucial composition activities and their relationships. Our preliminary evaluation indicated that the proposed architecture could support composition tools for UML class, sequence, and component diagrams."
abstract_short = "Academia and industry are increasingly concerned with producing general-purpose model composition techniques to support many software engineering activities, e.g., evolving UML design models or reconciling conflicting models. However, the current techniques fail to provide flexible and reusable architectures, a comprehensive understanding of the critical composition activities, and guidelines about how developers can use and extend them. These limitations are one of the main reasons why state-of-the-art techniques are often unable to aid the development of new composition tools. To overcome these shortcomings, this paper, therefore, proposes a flexible, component-based architecture for aiding the development of composition techniques. Moreover, an intelligible composition workflow is proposed to help developers to improve the understanding of crucial composition activities and their relationships. Our preliminary evaluation indicated that the proposed architecture could support composition tools for UML class, sequence, and component diagrams."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Model Composition", "UML", "Tool", "Software Architecture"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/seke-2015-2.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = "pdf/slides/seke-2015-2-slides.pdf"
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
