+++
title = "Model Comparison: A Systematic Mapping Study"
date = 2015-07-01T03:06:52-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Lucian José Gonçales", "**Kleinner Farias**", "Murillo Scholl", "Maurício Veronez", "Toacy Oliveira"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Twenty-Seventh International Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering, pp. 546-551, July, Pittsburgh, USA"
publication_short = "Twenty-Seventh International Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering, pp. 546-551, July, Pittsburgh, USA"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Context: Model comparison plays a central role in many software engineering activities. However, a comprehensive understanding about the state-of-art is still required. Goal: This paper, therefore, aims at classifying, identifying publication fora, and performing thematic analysis of the current literature in model comparison for creating an extensive and detailed understanding about this area, thereby determining gaps by graphing and pinpointing in which research areas and for which study types a shortage of publications still exits. Method: We have conducted a systematic mapping study to scrutinize those contributions produced over time, which research topics have most investigated, and which research methods that have been applied. For this, we have followed well-established empirical guidelines to define and apply a systematic mapping study. Results: The results are: (1) majority of studies (14 out of 40) provide generic model comparison techniques, rather than comparison techniques for UML diagrams; (2) a categorization and quantification of the current studies in a variety of dimensions; and (3) an overview of current research topics and trend."
abstract_short = "Context: Model comparison plays a central role in many software engineering activities. However, a comprehensive understanding about the state-of-art is still required. Goal: This paper, therefore, aims at classifying, identifying publication fora, and performing thematic analysis of the current literature in model comparison for creating an extensive and detailed understanding about this area, thereby determining gaps by graphing and pinpointing in which research areas and for which study types a shortage of publications still exits. Method: We have conducted a systematic mapping study to scrutinize those contributions produced over time, which research topics have most investigated, and which research methods that have been applied. For this, we have followed well-established empirical guidelines to define and apply a systematic mapping study. Results: The results are: (1) majority of studies (14 out of 40) provide generic model comparison techniques, rather than comparison techniques for UML diagrams; (2) a categorization and quantification of the current studies in a variety of dimensions; and (3) an overview of current research topics and trend."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Model Comparison", "Systematic Mapping Study", "UML"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/seke-2015-1.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = "pdf/slides/seke-2015-1-slides.pdf"
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
