+++
title = "Model Comparison: A Strategy-Based Approach"
date = 2008-07-01T21:47:10-03:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Kleinner Farias**", "Toacy Oliveira"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "20th International Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering (SEKE'08), Vol. 20, pp. 912-917, San Francisco, USA"
publication_short = "20th International Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering (SEKE'08), Vol. 20, pp. 912-917, San Francisco, USA"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "With the emergence of Model Driven Archi- tecture (MDA), the role of model composition has become very important. One challenge of model composition is specifically to merge models expressed in the Unified Model Language (UML) and its profiles. However, for merging it is necessary to perform an essential task: model comparison. In this paper, we present a model comparison technique that relies on match strategies so that input models can be merged if they are considered equivalent according to a specific match strategy. To put this in practice we defined a match operator that makes use of match rules, synonym dictionary and typographic similarity. Moreover, a guidance for model comparison was elaborated to specify the activities that go along with model comparison."
abstract_short = "With the emergence of Model Driven Archi- tecture (MDA), the role of model composition has become very important. One challenge of model composition is specifically to merge models expressed in the Unified Model Language (UML) and its profiles. However, for merging it is necessary to perform an essential task: model comparison. In this paper, we present a model comparison technique that relies on match strategies so that input models can be merged if they are considered equivalent according to a specific match strategy. To put this in practice we defined a match operator that makes use of match rules, synonym dictionary and typographic similarity. Moreover, a guidance for model comparison was elaborated to specify the activities that go along with model comparison."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["Model Comparison", "UML"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/articles/seke-2008.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
